[Music]
how's it going everyone this video is
going to be over inversions we'll first
hop into a PDF to go over what
inversions are we will then quickly
discuss the consequent crment of fair
value gaps and how it is used before
talking about old sies and bisses and
how they can be used on the buy side and
sell side of the curve so let's go ahead
and get into it so here we are in the
PDF and the PD array we are going to be
focused on for this video is a fair
value Gap now if you don't know what a
fair value Gap is I suggest you click
the link in the top right corner to
watch my video on that but for a quick
reminder a fair value Gap is a three
Candlestick pattern which the first
candle's low does not overlap with the
third candle's high or when the first
candle's high does not overlap with the
third candle's low so now that you
understand that what is an inversion an
inversion is when a fair value Gap and
in this case a CBI or a bearish fair
value Gap gets closed over or
disrespected so if we continue ahead
here you can see how the next candle
closes over this civy which creates an
inversion now if we extend this out we
can expect price to either retrace into
this zone or just move higher so you can
see it retraces into this zone or the
old fair value Gap it respects the
consequent encroachment and then
continues higher so what is the
consequent encroachment the consequent
encroachment is A5 or 50% of a pair
value Gap so I can mark this out by just
taking a fib from this high to this low
and getting 50% now what I want to see
with consequent encroachment is if price
comes in and respects this area then I
anticipate it to move higher now if we
go back and price comes in and violates
this area then I can anticipate price to
move lower and you can see here how it
closes below the fair value Gap and
creates an inversion so let's hop into
the charts and find a few examples of
inversion so here we are with our first
example and we we have Euro USD on the
60-minute chart and we have an hourly
sweep right here so let's drop down to
the 5 minute chart so here we are on the
5minute chart and if we're going to be
watching for an inversion we want to see
a busy or a bullish fair value Gap get
disrespected so marking out this bullish
fair value Gap here we want to see when
price closes below
that so you can see we didn't close
below it yet but right here we closed
below it so now we can anticipate price
to reach back back into this area or
continue to sell off to where these lows
down here so there are a few ways to
look for an entry here I can look to
just market sell this or I can look for
a retest of this inversion my stop above
an opposing candle and then looking to
Target these lows so let's see how this
works
out gets tagged in you can see now fair
value gaps are supporting price lower
and there we hit the lows so now let's
drop back out to the hourly chart to see
what this looks like so you can see we
just took these buy stops and then ran
to the other side of the range sweeping
this sells side liquidity now if you
watched my previous video on external
and internal liquidity what do you
notice after taking these lows and
closing back inside well we sweep
external liquidity and what do we have
resting right here internal
liquidity so this gives us a framework
to trade in the opposite direction so
let's drop back down to the 5-minute
chart so here we are on the 5-minute
chart you can see after we took these
lows we Consolidated and created a range
price tried to move higher you can see
we wretch into a fair value Gap here and
then price closed back lower before
making a new low now what do you notice
about this new low we swept sell stops
here and then created a fair value Gap
when price trades and closes over this
fair value Gap it creates an inversion
now if I'm looking to take an entry off
this inversion with my stop on this low
and targeting the midpoint of this fair
value Gap that's about 1 R which does
not meet my requirements for entry so
how can I adjust my entry well what I
can do is Mark out the consequent
encroachment of this civy here and by
marking that out I can look to take an
entry at the consequent encroachment of
that old civy or the inversion let's see
how this plays
out so you can see we hit our entry get
this placement out price respects a fair
value Gap and continues into the hourly
civy so let's go ahead and look back out
at the hourly chart to see what this
looks like so back out here on the
hourly chart just to review what
happened we had buy stops resting above
old highs price traded above those old
highs then closed back inside the range
giving us a narrative to trade lower to
sell side liquidity a 5minute inversion
was used as price traded lower here
after sweeping sells side liquidity or
the sell stops resting below old lows
price goes from external to internal
liquidity and a 5minute inversion was
used once again so here we are on inq
2minute chart and you can see we get an
aggressive move down and then back up so
looking for this to be a retracement I
would want to see follow through to the
upside however we do not get that after
sweeping these highs we can't close
outside the range and we just fall back
in So with consolidation I'll be waiting
for manipulation or I'm waiting for
external range liquidity to be hit so
I'm waiting for this low or this High to
be
hit so you can see price does respect
this fair value Gap and then trades to
sell-side
liquidity price cannot displace out of
the range and you can see we get another
sweep there and then we have a CBI
resting
here now if we want this to be an
inversion we want to see a close over
now we are closing over the consequent
encroachment which gives us a hint but I
want to see a close over the CBI for it
to become an inversion so letting
another candle play
out we do get that close over so then
looking for a return to this CBI I'll
have my stop on this low and then I'll
be looking to Target the other side of
the range for partials or full take
profit so you can see price returns back
into that inversion and here now I want
to see it respect that consequent
encroachment and you can see that it
is and there we go
we sweep one more
time before displacing over validating
this as an order block price then
respects that and continues higher to
make a new high so we are going to
continue on with this example and talk
about how we can use inversions within
Trend so you can see we're trending up
here so making a higher high we'd want
to see a higher low put in and what do
we have well we have an order block and
then an order block off that order block
so a propulsion block so let's see what
happens if price retraces
there it does and if you notice what
does it do when it retraces to this
propulsion block it creates a fair value
Gap or a Cy now that price closes over
it this is an opportunity to get an
entry into the trend so let's see how
this works
out you can see it's pretty choppy but
we do end up making a new high so now we
made a higher high are we going to make
a higher low well we have a fair value
Gap here so if we're going to make a
higher low here what do we have we have
a civy so if we trade over this we can
anticipate price to retest it or at
least go
higher here we close over that make a
higher high now we'd want to see a
higher
low you can see we test this
inversion and then continue higher and
the one I just missed is we have an
inversion here if we close over retest
it and continue higher so you can see if
price is trending in One Directions
those opposing PD arrays that fail are
actually opportunities to get into that
Trend let's go ahead and go back into
the PDF to learn about how to use old
cities and buses so back here in the PDF
we can use old fair value gaps to look
for reaccumulation or redistribution so
for example here we are on the cell side
of the curve here we have the smart
money reversal change in the state of
delivery the inversion Market structure
shift all of that now we are on the buy
side of the curve what I can look for is
Old Fair Value gaps from the sell side
of the curve to support price higher so
for example we have an old fair value
Gap here that gets traded above and then
is used as support to trade higher so
let's go look at a few examples of this
so here we are on gold daily chart we
have equal highs resting above us and
let's mark out our cppy right here now
if we're going to to have a smart money
reversal I'd like to see a close over
this Cy and a close over these down
close
candles and we get both of those so now
I'd like to see a short-term low be put
in so we do get a shortterm low so now
confirming our smart money reversal do
we have any old fair value gaps on the
cell side of the curve we do so dragging
that out when price closes over this
fair value Gap it can then use it as
support to move higher
here you can see it reaches back into
this old fair value Gap so I'd
anticipate it to move
higher and there we get a sweep of that
buy side liquidity I hope this example
shows you how you can use old fair value
gaps drawn to the other side of the
curve so for example an old cby drawn to
the buy side of the curve or an old
bissy drawn to the cell side of the
curve and use that for reaccumulation or
redistribution tion now if you found
this video helpful please consider
liking and subscribing and I'll see you
guys next
week